README.md, before:

# Experiment Monitoring

[![Tests](https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Checked with mypy](https://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](https://mypy-lang.org/)

Automated monitoring of lab equipment with time series visualization and e-mail alerts.

![Experiment Monitoring](docs/snapshot.png)

## Features

- Centralized data acquisition from multiple sensor types
- Time series storage in InfluxDB
- Grafana dashboard for visualization
- Automatic e-mail alerts based on user-defined thresholds
- Spike filtering for noisy signals

## Supported Interfaces

| Interface | Example Hardware |
|-----------|------------------|
| Serial | Pfeiffer TPG261 |
| TCP/IP | Arduino Due |
| Analog (via ADC) | Pfeiffer TPG300 |
| SNMP | Eaton UPS |
| Phidgets | Thermocouple module |
| Webcam OCR | Panel displays |

## Installation

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring.git
```

Or for development:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring.git
cd experiment-monitoring
pip install -e ".[testing]"
```

## Quick Start

1. Set up your server (see `docs/server_setup.md`)
2. Configure your sensors in `src/expmonitor/config.py`
3. Run the monitoring loop:

```bash
python -m expmonitor.exec
```

Test mode with verbose output (5 iterations):

```bash
python -m expmonitor.exec t v 5
```

## Adding New Sensors

Create a subclass of the abstract `Sensor` class:

```python
from expmonitor.classes.sensor import Sensor

class MySensor(Sensor):
    def __init__(self, descr, ...):
        self.type = 'MyType'
        self.descr = descr
        # ...

    def measure(self):
        # Implement measurement logic
        self.measurement = self.read_value()

    def rcv_vals(self):
        # Return formatted measurement string
        return str(self.measurement)
```

Then instantiate it in `config.py`.

## Repository Structure

```
src/expmonitor/
├── classes/          # Sensor driver classes
│   ├── sensor.py     # Abstract base class
│   ├── adc/          # Arduino ADC drivers
│   └── ups/          # UPS monitoring
├── calibrations/     # Calibration data and scripts
├── utilities/        # Shared utilities (spike filter, etc.)
├── config.py         # Main configuration
└── exec.py           # Entry point
server_setup/         # Deployment scripts and systemd service
tests/                # Test suite
docs/                 # Documentation
```

## License

GPL-3.0

Commit message:

Add note explaining coverage limitations

README.md, after:

# Experiment Monitoring

[![Tests](https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Checked with mypy](https://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](https://mypy-lang.org/)

Automated monitoring of lab equipment with time series visualization and e-mail alerts.

![Experiment Monitoring](docs/snapshot.png)

## Features

- Centralized data acquisition from multiple sensor types
- Time series storage in InfluxDB
- Grafana dashboard for visualization
- Automatic e-mail alerts based on user-defined thresholds
- Spike filtering for noisy signals

## Supported Interfaces

| Interface | Example Hardware |
|-----------|------------------|
| Serial | Pfeiffer TPG261 |
| TCP/IP | Arduino Due |
| Analog (via ADC) | Pfeiffer TPG300 |
| SNMP | Eaton UPS |
| Phidgets | Thermocouple module |
| Webcam OCR | Panel displays |

## Installation

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring.git
```

Or for development:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JPBureik/experiment-monitoring.git
cd experiment-monitoring
pip install -e ".[testing]"
```

## Quick Start

1. Set up your server (see `docs/server_setup.md`)
2. Configure your sensors in `src/expmonitor/config.py`
3. Run the monitoring loop:

```bash
python -m expmonitor.exec
```

Test mode with verbose output (5 iterations):

```bash
python -m expmonitor.exec t v 5
```

## Adding New Sensors

Create a subclass of the abstract `Sensor` class:

```python
from expmonitor.classes.sensor import Sensor

class MySensor(Sensor):
    def __init__(self, descr, ...):
        self.type = 'MyType'
        self.descr = descr
        # ...

    def measure(self):
        # Implement measurement logic
        self.measurement = self.read_value()

    def rcv_vals(self):
        # Return formatted measurement string
        return str(self.measurement)
```

Then instantiate it in `config.py`.

## Repository Structure

```
src/expmonitor/
├── classes/          # Sensor driver classes
│   ├── sensor.py     # Abstract base class
│   ├── adc/          # Arduino ADC drivers
│   └── ups/          # UPS monitoring
├── calibrations/     # Calibration data and scripts
├── utilities/        # Shared utilities (spike filter, etc.)
├── config.py         # Main configuration
└── exec.py           # Entry point
server_setup/         # Deployment scripts and systemd service
tests/                # Test suite
docs/                 # Documentation
```

## Note on Coverage

Test coverage is limited because most code paths require physical hardware (sensors, Arduino, Phidgets) or external services (InfluxDB, Grafana). Unit tests cover all pure utility functions that can be tested in isolation.

## License

GPL-3.0
